In order to understand how dynamic programming works we need to understand what caching means caching
is a way to store values so you can use them later on.
Ideally you can think of caching as a backpack they take to school instead of going all the way home
when you need something like a pencil.
You have a small box on your back that holds items that you need so that when you go to school you can
just reuse them fast over and over.
Now that's a bit of a silly example.
Caching is just a way for us to speed up programs and hold some piece of data in an easily accessible
box and memorization is a specific form of caching that we're going to be talking about because we use
it a lot in dynamic programming.
But instead of just talking about it let's actually demonstrated it in code the way we can cache things.
Well let's imagine we have a function that says we want to add to 80 and this function takes a number
and all it does is return the value of n..
That is a parameter we give it and adds 80 to it.
So that when we run the function add to 80 and let's say we put in five we get eighty five nice and
simple right.
But if I run this function again I'll have to go through this step again and add 80 to that answer.
And if I do this again again do the same thing I've ran the calculation three times but what if this
operation took a really really long time.
What if I had a console log here and we can imagine that this operation takes multiple seconds.
It takes a long time every time we run this function will have to run longtime three times and go through
this step one by one.
Even though we've done the exact same calculation three times is there a way that we can optimize this
and this is where we can use caching and memorization.
Let's improve the above function by doing something different.
I'm going to create a new object called cache that's going to hold an empty object.
We're also going to have a function that is now going to be called memorized.
Not memorized memorized add to Haiti.
That takes a number and inside here we're going to do something a little bit different than the above.
We're still going to add to 80 but we're gonna do it in a special way.
I'm going to say that if n is in cash and this is a way to check if a property exists in an object in
JavaScript so it's similar to me doing cache dot and to check for the property this one just reads better
so I'm going to keep it like that.
So with an exists in cash so if we've cashed it before then simply return the cash dot and or cash and
so return the cached value but obviously it's empty.
The first time around so this is not going to work.
If there's nothing in the cache which is the case the first time around.
Well we have an L statement and in here we're going to have our cash an which doesn't exist yet and
assign it and plus 80 so that after this if we do something like minimized ad to eighty five it's going
to say five plus 80.
So in here we're going to cash the property five to have a value of eighty five which is what we're
doing here.
So that the next time around we're doing something like this.
We go through the if statement find the fact that we've already calculated five and just do simple property
access which as we know is all one time is super fast with the hash table like this let's complete this
example to show you how it works.
I'm just simply going to return
since we just fill it up here and let's just have a console log here that does long time to see that
we're doing the calculation that takes a long time.
The first time I run this function I get eighty five and whoops I have the cash refilled.
So it didn't calculate the longtime.
Let's try that again.
Click Run longtime.
The first pass through it went through here and did this calculation that hypothetically is going to
take a really long time.
Again we're using a nice easy example here but you can imagine this being a calculation that takes a
long time many seconds.
What if we do this again we can console that like here
to make sure that we capture these values
and we'll label them one and two just so we can distinguish them.
So the first goal and the second call if I hit run look at that first time around we call longtime and
we calculate two eighty five.
But the second time around because this value was in the cache we didn't have to do this long calculation
and we just returned it immediately.
So what is memorization.
Exactly well memorization is a specific form of caching that involves caching the return value of a
function that is the return value of this function based on its parameters.
And if the parameter of this function doesn't change like it is here then it's memorized.
That is it uses the cache because it's calculated the same thing before with the same parameter.
And it will return a cached version of the function it's memorized.
If the parameter changes well it's a different parameter that it's never seen before.
So it's going to calculate both times different things.
And I just noticed here that this shouldn't be five it should be.
And over here so it's dynamic.
There you go.
That's better.
So remember this memorization is simply a way to remember a solution to a cell problem.
So you don't have to calculate it again.